Mike reilly msft input to br alignment (#18)
sleevi/cabforum-docs: docs/BR.md

For the status of Subscriber Certificates:

> 1.  OCSP responses for certificates must meet the following requirements:
> 	a. Minimum validity of eight (8) hours; maximum validity of ten (10) days for leaf certificates and 12 months for subordinate CA certificates; and
> 	b. If the validity period of the OCSP response is less than 16 hours, then the next response must be available at ½ the validity period.  If the validity period is greater than 16 hours then the next response must be available no less than 8 hours before the current response expires.

Reviewer: From your e-mail, it sounds like Microsoft is in the process of updating its policy to be more relaxed. Structurally, I think the formatting I proposed is a bit clearer.

I'll open up a PR on your branch (I'm getting GitHub errors at the moment), but I think the language is

```suggestion
1. OCSP responses MUST have a validity interval of greater than or equal to eight hours;
2. OCSP responses MUST have a validity internal of less than or equal to ten days;
3. For OCSP responses with validity intervals less than sixteen hours, then the CA SHALL update the information provided via an Online Certificate Status Protocol prior to one-half of the validity period before the nextUpdate.
4. For OCSP responses with validity intervals greater than or equal to sixteen hours, then the CA SHALL update the information provided via an Online Certificate Status Protocol at least eight hours prior to the nextUpdate.
```

That is, it keeps the substance of your changes, but clarifies what "current response expires" means by using the language from the OCSP RFC.

The subordinate CA certificate requirement is captured on line 1151

Reviewer: Also, I realize Microsoft is in the process of updating its Root Policy, but one nice thing about the existing (7 day max, 1/2 update) is that it more naturally aligned with the CRL requirements within Section 4.9.7. of the BRs

That is, the existing (part of the BRs) requirement states:
> If the CA publishes a CRL, then the CA SHALL update and reissue CRLs at least once every seven days, and the value of the nextUpdate field MUST NOT be more than ten days beyond the value of the thisUpdate field.

That is, phrased differently:
1. CRLs have a maximum validity internal of 10 days
2. New CRLs MUST be published at least every seven days

For OCSP, the existing BRs have:
1. OCSP responses have a maximum validity of 10 days
2. New OCSP responses must be published every 4 days

For OCSP, the existing Microsoft Root Policy has
1. OCSP responses have a maximum validity of 7 days
2. New OCSP responses must be published no later than every 3.5 days

The proposed new Microsoft policy would be.
1. OCSP responses have a maximum validity of 10 days
2. New OCSP responses must be published no later than every 9.66 days (**BUG?** to be more lax than BRs)

> 2.  All subordinate CA certificates must include the CRL distribution point extension and an AIA containing an OCSP responder URL.  All end-entity certificates must include the AIA containing an OCSP responder URL and can include the CRL distribution point extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

So, this second bullet is more about the certificate profile, and is captured at https://github.com/sleevi/cabforum-docs/blame/2019-10-Browser_Alignment/docs/BR.md#L1589 (that is, Section 7.1.2.2(c), which is modified - https://github.com/sleevi/cabforum-docs/blob/2019-10-Browser_Alignment/docs/BR.md#7122-subordinate-ca-certificate ) . 7.1.2.2 (b) already requires CRLs for Subordinates. 

For Subscriber certificates, that's https://github.com/sleevi/cabforum-docs/blame/2019-10-Browser_Alignment/docs/BR.md#L1648 ( specifically, 7.1.2.3 (c))

https://github.com/sleevi/cabforum-docs/commit/c8d5a3ddb3385c587f3a203be81b03e8de9a959e was the commit that added these, so I think we can just delete this line item from this section.

>
> This extension MUST be present and SHOULD NOT be marked critical.
>

> > For Subordinate CA Certificates that will be used to issue TLS certificates, the value id-kp-serverAuth [RFC5280] and/or id-kp-clientAuth [RFC5280} MUST be present. The values id-kp-emailProtection [RFC5280], id-kp-codeSigning [RFC5280], id-kp-timeStamping [RFC5280], id-kp-OCSPSigning [RFC5280], and anyExtendedKeyUsage [RFC5280] MUST NOT be present. Other values SHOULD NOT be present.

Reviewer: So I originally tried to mirror the and/or language, but @clintwilson pointed out I kinda botched it, which you can see when I "corrected" it in https://github.com/cabforum/documents/commit/45208d90819a95affa7403ca87c8bf32ada0eaa7 and https://github.com/cabforum/documents/commit/4597b5abffa81692fd8fa08fe3b1510286564846

If I'm understanding correctly, the requirement is something like:

```suggestion
> For Subordinate CA Certificates that will be used to issue TLS certificates, the value id-kp-serverAuth [RFC5280] MUST be present. The value id-kp-clientAuth [RFC5280} MAY be present. The values id-kp-emailProtection [RFC5280], id-kp-codeSigning [RFC5280], id-kp-timeStamping [RFC5280], id-kp-OCSPSigning [RFC5280], and anyExtendedKeyUsage [RFC5280] MUST NOT be present. Other values SHOULD NOT be present.
```

This allows TLS-issuing CA to issue TLS server certificates that also contain id-kp-clientAuth (e.g. for server-to-server mTLS), while also allowing CA certificates that only issue client certificates (e.g. to smart cards) to not be subject to the TLS rules.

Does that language match the intent?

>

> > For Subordinate CA Certificates that are not used to issue TLS certificates, then the value id-kp-serverAuth [RFC5280] and id-kp-clientAuth [RFC5280} MUST NOT be present. Other values MAY be present, but SHOULD NOT combine multiple independent usages (e.g. including id-kp-timeStamping [RFC5280] with id-kp-OCSPSigning [RFC5280] or id-kp-codeSigning [RFC5280]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For Subordinate CA Certificates that are not used to issue TLS certificates, then the value id-kp-serverAuth [RFC5280]. Other values MAY be present, but SHOULD NOT combine multiple independent usages (e.g. including id-kp-timeStamping [RFC5280] with id-kp-OCSPSigning [RFC5280] or id-kp-codeSigning [RFC5280]).
```

I *don't* think we want this change, because it means that a CA cert with only id-kp-clientAuth will *always* be treated as a TLS server CA. That's what https://github.com/sleevi/cabforum-docs/commit/4597b5abffa81692fd8fa08fe3b1510286564846#diff-7f6d14a20e7f3beb696b45e1bf8196f2 was about

For P-256 keys, the `namedCurve` MUST be secp256r1 (OID: 1.2.840.10045.3.1.7).
For P-384 keys, the `namedCurve` MUST be secp384r1 (OID: 1.3.132.0.34).
For P-521 keys, the `namedCurve` MUST be secp521r1 (OID: 1.3.132.0.35).

When encoded, the `AlgorithmIdentifier` for ECDSA keys MUST be byte-for-byte identical with the following hex-encoded bytes:
* For P-256 keys, `301306072a8648ce3d020106082a8648ce3d030107`.
* For P-384 keys, `301006072a8648ce3d020106052b81040022`.

> * For P-521 keys, `need to add`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For P-521 keys, `301006072a8648ce3d020106052b81040023`.
```

If the signing key is P-384, the signature MUST use ECDSA with SHA-384. When encoded, the `AlgorithmIdentifier` MUST be byte-for-byte identical with the following hex-encoded bytes: `300a06082a8648ce3d040303`.

> If the signing key is P-521, the signature MUST use ECDSA with SHA-512. When encoded, the `AlgorithmIdentifier` MUST be byte-for-byte identical with the following hex-encoded bytes: `need to add`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the signing key is P-521, the signature MUST use ECDSA with SHA-512. When encoded, the `AlgorithmIdentifier` MUST be byte-for-byte identical with the following hex-encoded bytes: `300a06082a8648ce3d040304`.
```

4. audit criteria, with version number(s), that were used to audit each of the certificates (and associated keys);
5. a list of the CA policy documents, with version numbers, referenced during the audit;
6. whether the audit assessed a period of time or a point in time;

> 7. the start date and end date of the period that was audited, for those that cover a period of time (please note, this is not the period that the auditor was on site);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. the start date and end date of the Audit Period, for those that cover a period of time;
```

"Audit Period" is defined in Section 1.6.1 as
>  In a period-of-time audit, the period between the first day (start) and the last day of
operations (end) covered by the auditors in their engagement. (This is not the same as the period of time
when the auditors are on-site at the CA.) The coverage rules and maximum length of audit periods are defined
in section 8.1.

This was defined in https://cabforum.org/2017/04/17/ballot-196-define-audit-period/

8. the point in time date, for those that are for a point in time;
9. the date the report was issued, which will necessarily be after the end date or point in time date; and

> 10. (for audits conducted in accordance with any of the ETSI standards) a statement to indicate if the audit was a full audit or a surveillance audit, and which portions of the criteria were applied and evaluated, e.g. DVCP, OVCP, NCP, NCP+, LCP, EVCP, EVCP+, QCP-w, Part 1 (General Requirements), and/or Part 2 (Requirements for Trust Service Providers). ETSI audits must include that they referenced the relevant CABForum documents. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. (for audits conducted in accordance with any of the ETSI standards) a statement to indicate if the audit was a full audit or a surveillance audit, and which portions of the criteria were applied and evaluated, e.g. DVCP, OVCP, NCP, NCP+, LCP, EVCP, EVCP+, QCP-w, Part 1 (General Requirements), and/or Part 2 (Requirements for Trust Service Providers). 
11. (for audits conducted in accordance with any of the ETSI standards) a statement to indicate that the auditor referenced the applicable CA/Browser Forum criteria, such as this document, and the version used. 
```

Since this is already a clause about ETSI we don't need to say "ETSI audits". However, to split this out and make it clearer, I propose making it a separate line-item, so that it's clear they need to reference *both*. I propose changing "relevant" to "applicable" so that we don't end up with confusion with an ETSI auditor suggesting an EV audit does not need to reference the BRs - the BRs are still "applicable" for such certificates.
